SUSTAIN 101A: Sustainable Energy for Future Presidents
All people and societies face challenges and opportunities for living sustainably in our world. We must make many difficult and complex decisions in our lives as individuals, citizens, and leaders. Through participation in this course, students will develop the tools and knowledge to make wiser decisions. Students will work through three real sustainable energy problems: How could you reduce the carbon footprint of an average person in the US to the global per capita average? How can Stanford reach its carbon Net Zero goals for various sources of emissions? and How could you make the US electric power sector 100% carbon free by 2035? For each problem, students will work separately and together to identify possible options; evaluate the range of costs and benefits of each; identify economic, social, environmental, and technological barriers and opportunities. They will learn what information is relevant, how to get and use it, how to make and justify good decisions in the context of sustainability.

SUSTAIN 101C: Climate 101
This course provides an introduction to Earth's climate system, including how climate has changed in the past, how it is changing now, and how it could change in the future. Topics include quantifying signal-to-noise ratio for detecting long-term change in climate variables; calculating Earth's energy balance; calculating sources and sinks of carbon; understanding the history of climate variations and changes over Earth's history; quantifying the contribution of different greenhouse gases and human activities to historical and future climate change; understanding extreme weather events in the past, present and future, and quantifying the time to different global warming thresholds given different socio-economic scenarios. Students will be asked to engage in analysis of climate datasets to understand climate processes and climate change. No prerequisites.

SUSTAIN 101D: Sustainable Innovation for Disaster Resilience
Disaster resilience embodies two concepts: adaptation and recovery. As climate change exacerbates the occurrence and intensity of environmental disasters, innovators and decision makers must collaborate to help vulnerable communities and the build environment adapt to and recover from shocks and stresses in a sustainable way without compromising long-term development. This course is tailored to solution-oriented students who are comfortable focusing on wicked problems, and care about the complexity of sustainable and equitable innovation. The course intends to teach students how to lead the design and implementation of products and services that will help real people who are experiencing disaster, with an emphasis on those facing disproportionate effects due to historical contexts. This course is only open to undergraduate students.

SUSTAIN 103: Human and Planetary Health (MED 103, PUBLPOL 183, SOC 103)
Two of the biggest challenges humanity has to face ? promoting human health and halting environmental degradation ? are strongly linked. Gains in health metrics in the last century have coincided with dramatic and unsustainable planetary-level degradation of environmental and ecological systems. Now, climate change, pollution, and other challenges are threatening the health and survival of communities across the globe. In acknowledging complex interconnections between environment and health, this course highlights how we must use an interdisciplinary approach and systems thinking to develop comprehensive solutions. Through a survey of human & planetary health topics that engages guest speakers across Stanford and beyond, students will develop an understanding of interconnected environmental and health challenges, priority areas of action, and channels for impact. Students enrolling in just the lecture should enroll for 3 units. Students enrolling the lecture and weekly discussion sections should enroll for 4 units.

SUSTAIN 120: Leading Organizational Change for Sustainability
The Living Lab Fellowship in campus sustainability brings together a talented group of advanced undergraduates to doctoral-level students to make meaningful progress toward achieving Stanford University's operational sustainability goals. Leading Organizational Change is a two-unit, one-quarter elective course offered Autumn quarter. The course constitutes the academic component of the Living Lab Fellowship Program. This course is only open to students who have applied and been accepted to the Living Lab Fellowship Program. Interested students apply by Spring quarter of the preceding year and undergo a competitive application process, after which successful applicants are invited to take part in the program. The ability to lead change within organizations is essential for solving the complex and urgent challenges of our time. By most estimates, the majority of change efforts fail. However, the techniques used to successfully lead change across different industries and sectors (private, nonprofit, public) can be taught, learned, and practiced. This course will demonstrate why change fails, teach fellows to avoid common pitfalls, introduce powerful frameworks and strategic approaches for leading successful change, and provide fellows with tools that can be applied at any scale. Using the Stanford campus as a living laboratory where material from the course can be meaningfully applied, this course emphasizes learning through doing. Fellows are encouraged to practice and apply concepts, give and receive feedback, and practice self-reflection to grow as facilitators of positive and successful change. By the end of this course, fellows will deepen their understanding of the challenges, techniques, and opportunities associated with leading change in organizations and will be equipped to continue to build their capacity to lead successful change and foster healthy, just, sustainable, and resilient organizations. Through this course, each fellow develops an Organizational Opportunity Project (OrgOpp) that is based on a pre-identified operational sustainability need at Stanford. To develop their OrgOpp project proposal, fellows use the Why/What/How framework to develop the proposal, gain approval from key stakeholder(s), conduct an assessment, and make recommendations for the Path Forward. The coursework is designed to be real, meaningful, and impactful. Critical to the success of the fellows in the course is their willingness to listen deeply, iterate on their work, and commit to providing value to the university. In order to make meaningful change, one must be bold, persistent, visionary, and also humble, willing to be flexible, make mistakes, be patient, listen deeply, and serve the greater good.

SUSTAIN 121: Blue Foods for Indonesia: A Human & Planetary Health Action Lab (SUSTAIN 221)
Globally, more than 1 billion people rely on seafood, yet this source of vital nutrition is chronically neglected in discussions about the future of food systems. In 2021, the UN Food Systems Summit brought international attention to the potential of "blue foods," thanks in part to insights and evidence provided by the Stanford-led Blue Food Assessment. Now, the Indonesian Ministry of National Development Planning has asked Stanford to help them build blue foods into Indonesia's national development strategy. Indonesia is the 4th most populous country, home to 278 million people and the most marine biodiversity on the planet. Over the next 18 months, we will work with the Ministry, Indonesian researchers, and NGO partners to develop a Blue Food Assessment for Indonesia that can help policymakers realize the potential of blue foods to meet pressing food system priorities ? improving nutrition, food security, and livelihoods, both nationally and in rural communities. This Blue Foods Action Lab is the first of a series to help Indonesia implement a far-reaching national program that could transform its food system and could be used as a model for other countries. For Winter quarter the role of the students will be to evaluate successful programs implemented by other nations in the areas of aquaculture, small scale fisheries, blue food tech and justice and inclusion. We will examine current policies, existing datasets and impacts to fish stocks and nutrition. A report will be produced and shared with the Indonesian Ministry and our NGO partner. The practicum seeks graduate and well-qualified undergraduate students in such programs as earth systems, computer science, public policy, international policy, business, sociology, and marine biology.

SUSTAIN 128: Upstreaming Health (DESIGN 261, HUMBIO 128U)
Reimagine systems to make everyday life healthier by design. Good health doesn't begin the minute someone walks into a doctor's office. If we want everyday life to become healthier by default, we need to shift our interventions from downstream to upstream, from healthcare to the places where we live, learn, work, and play. Upstreaming health means making a deliberate effort to create patterns of everyday life that keep people well - physically, emotionally, financially, and socially. In Upstreaming Health, we will explore systems that influence health, health equity, and sustainability, integrating concepts from public health, systems thinking, and design justice and use tools from product and policy design to answer the question: How might we upstream health for all people? Through community-engaged projects, students will prototype possibilities for upstreaming health at a population-level.

SUSTAIN 130: Empirical Environmental Economics (ECON 177, SUSTAIN 230)
Are you interested in environmental and energy policy? Do you want to improve your data science skills? If so, Empirical Environmental Economics is for you. In the first few weeks of class, you'll use data and microeconomic modeling to quantify the harms from pollution, including estimating the social cost of carbon emissions. For the rest of the quarter, you'll use more data and microeconomic modeling to evaluate major environmental policies such as pollution taxes, cap-and-trade programs, and subsidies for clean technologies. You will consider overall benefits and costs as well as the distributional equity, which can inform discussions of environmental justice. You will learn and practice useful data science skills, including applied econometrics/causal inference methods (e.g., difference-in-differences, instrumental variables, and regression discontinuity) and equilibrium modeling. The class has weekly problem sets involving data analysis in R, plus a final paper. Class sessions feature active learning, discussions, and small-group case studies. You should only enroll if you expect to attend regularly and complete the problem sets on time.

SUSTAIN 131: Imagining Adaptive Societies (CSRE 161, CSRE 261, ENGLISH 131D, POLISCI 131, POLISCI 331D, SUSTAIN 231)
The ecological, social, and economic crises of the Anthropocene suggest it is time for us to re-imagine how best to organize our communities, our institutions, and our societies. Despite the clear shortcomings, our society remains stuck in a rut of inaction. During periods of rapid social and economic change, segments of society become gripped by a nostalgia for idealized pasts that never really existed; such nostalgia acts as a powerful force that holds back innovation and contributes to a failure of imagination. How, then, might we imagine alternative social arrangements that could allow us to thrive sustainably in an environment of greater equity? Moshin Hamid reminds us that literature allows us to break from violent nostalgia while imagining better worlds, while Ursula K. Le Guin notes that "imaginative fiction trains people to be aware that there are other ways to do things, other ways to be; that there is not just one civilization, and it is good, and it is the way we have to be." There are - there has to be - other and better ways to be. In this multi-disciplinary class, we turn to speculative fiction as a way of imagining future societies that are adaptable, sustainable, and just and can respond to the major challenges of our age. In addition to reading and discussing a range of novels and short stories, we bring to bear perspectives from climate science, social science, and literary criticism. We will also be hosting several of the authors to talk about their work and ideas.

SUSTAIN 135: Data Science for Environmental Business (ECON 185, SUSTAIN 235)
Are you interested in clean tech and sustainability? Do you like working with data or plan to manage data scientists? Do you want to find a socially impactful job? If so, Data Science for Environmental Business is for you. Each week, we?ll have a guest speaker from a utility, venture capital firm, clean tech startup, renewable energy developer, or some other sustainability-related business. We?ll do a quantitative case study of one of the speaker?s business problems, such as carbon footprint measurement, supply chain decarbonization, techno-economic analysis, where to site renewable energy facilities, how to value electricity storage, or predicting demand for electric vehicles. Then in the next class, we?ll discuss the analytical decisions you made on the case study and the business implications of your results. We aim to draw a mix of students from the GSB, engineering, sustainability, data science, computer science, economics, math, and other fields. Students registering through the GSB should expect roughly standard MBA class workload. Students registering through non-GSB course numbers should expect a serious data science course where you?ll learn and apply new methods. We hope to develop a pipeline of students working for the guest speakers and similar firms.

SUSTAIN 143: Finance, Corporations, and Society (ECON 143, INTLPOL 227, POLISCI 127A, PUBLPOL 143)
As society faces major challenges, democracies and "free-market" capitalism appear to be in crisis. This interdisciplinary course will explore the complex interactions between corporations, governments, and individuals, drawing on insights from the social sciences, business, and law to understand how institutions and collective actions translate to a set of rules and to outcomes for people and nature. The course aims to help students become savvier in their interactions with our economic and political systems and understand the governance issues that are critical to whether and how well institutions in the private and public sectors serve us. Topics include financial decisions, financial markets, banks and institutional investors; corporations and corporate governance; political economy and the rule of law as it applies to people and to organizations, and the role and functioning of the media. We will connect the material to specific issues such as climate change and justice, and discuss current events regularly throughout the course. Students will have the opportunity to explore a situation of their choosing in more depth through group final projects. Visitors with relevant experiences will regularly enrich our class discussion.

SUSTAIN 230: Empirical Environmental Economics (ECON 177, SUSTAIN 130)
Are you interested in environmental and energy policy? Do you want to improve your data science skills? If so, Empirical Environmental Economics is for you. In the first few weeks of class, you'll use data and microeconomic modeling to quantify the harms from pollution, including estimating the social cost of carbon emissions. For the rest of the quarter, you'll use more data and microeconomic modeling to evaluate major environmental policies such as pollution taxes, cap-and-trade programs, and subsidies for clean technologies. You will consider overall benefits and costs as well as the distributional equity, which can inform discussions of environmental justice. You will learn and practice useful data science skills, including applied econometrics/causal inference methods (e.g., difference-in-differences, instrumental variables, and regression discontinuity) and equilibrium modeling. The class has weekly problem sets involving data analysis in R, plus a final paper. Class sessions feature active learning, discussions, and small-group case studies.

SUSTAIN 231: Imagining Adaptive Societies (CSRE 161, CSRE 261, ENGLISH 131D, POLISCI 131, POLISCI 331D, SUSTAIN 131)
The ecological, social, and economic crises of the Anthropocene suggest it is time for us to re-imagine how best to organize our communities, our institutions, and our societies. Despite the clear shortcomings, our society remains stuck in a rut of inaction. During periods of rapid social and economic change, segments of society become gripped by a nostalgia for idealized pasts that never really existed; such nostalgia acts as a powerful force that holds back innovation and contributes to a failure of imagination. How, then, might we imagine alternative social arrangements that could allow us to thrive sustainably in an environment of greater equity? Moshin Hamid reminds us that literature allows us to break from violent nostalgia while imagining better worlds, while Ursula K. Le Guin notes that "imaginative fiction trains people to be aware that there are other ways to do things, other ways to be; that there is not just one civilization, and it is good, and it is the way we have to be." There are - there has to be - other and better ways to be. In this multi-disciplinary class, we turn to speculative fiction as a way of imagining future societies that are adaptable, sustainable, and just and can respond to the major challenges of our age. In addition to reading and discussing a range of novels and short stories, we bring to bear perspectives from climate science, social science, and literary criticism. We will also be hosting several of the authors to talk about their work and ideas.

SUSTAIN 235: Data Science for Environmental Business (ECON 185, SUSTAIN 135)
Are you interested in clean tech and sustainability? Do you like working with data or plan to manage data scientists? Do you want to find a socially impactful job? If so, Data Science for Environmental Business is for you. Each week, we?ll have a guest speaker from a utility, venture capital firm, clean tech startup, renewable energy developer, or some other sustainability-related business. We?ll do a quantitative case study of one of the speaker?s business problems, such as carbon footprint measurement, supply chain decarbonization, techno-economic analysis, where to site renewable energy facilities, how to value electricity storage, or predicting demand for electric vehicles. Then in the next class, we?ll discuss the analytical decisions you made on the case study and the business implications of your results. We aim to draw a mix of students from the GSB, engineering, sustainability, data science, computer science, economics, math, and other fields. Students registering through the GSB should expect roughly standard MBA class workload. Students registering through non-GSB course numbers should expect a serious data science course where you'll learn and apply new methods. We hope to develop a pipeline of students working for the guest speakers and similar firms.

SUSTAIN 200P: Your Professional Development Practicum
Developing a strong portfolio of skills and tools takes resources and partners. This practicum enables the freedom to explore and develop a specific component of your professional portfolio with instructor support. You will set a professional development goal at the start of the quarter and then build a self-directed set of experiences that engage on-campus resources, professional society opportunities, and/or external partners to explore and develop new skills. Completion will include reflection on the experience, feedback from peers and mentors, and a concrete product that expands your professional toolkit.

SUSTAIN 210M: Energy Equity Policy Lab: Spatial Planning for Renewables
Even where policy leaders are striving to center equity in rapid energy transitions, the pathways to clean energy economies are often described by techno-economic models that have limited ability to assess the distributional implications of different scenarios. This course focuses on methods to translate high-level, spatially coarse research findings into actionable policy and technology investment decisions at the local scale. Through lab exercises to develop GIS skills, participants will collaborate with a public agency to select a study area, identify a spatial dataset representing renewable energy candidate project areas, use site suitability analysis, perform statistical summaries of the dataset, and identify portfolios of future renewable energy resources that could inform stakeholder engagement on decarbonization pathways that center equity.

SUSTAIN 222: Philanthropy for Sustainable Development (ETHICSOC 232T, POLISCI 236, POLISCI 236S)
This course teaches students how to pursue social change through philanthropy with a focus on sustainable development. Students learn about the approaches, history, and key debates in philanthropy, and apply their knowledge by collaboratively making a substantial class contribution to one or more select nonprofit organizations. This class responds to the reality confronting all philanthropists: There are many ways in which we can change the world for the better, but our money and time is finite. How then can we best use our limited resources to accomplish change? And how will we know we've been successful? By the end of the course, students will understand the fundamentals of effective philanthropy, including how to define problems, develop a theory of change, evaluate outcomes, and reduce unintended harm.

SUSTAIN 223: Confronting Emotions in the Climate Sciences (MED 246)
Traditional climate change courses introduce students to a wide array of scientifically and emotionally challenging subjects without acknowledging the significant distress that climate learners often experience from studiously bearing witness to ecological degradation, and the social injustices this deepens. Students enrolled in the proposed course will study a rapidly growing body of scholarship and activism related to emotive and existential responses to climate change. They will explore the psychosocial complexities that the Anthropocene proposes through key texts, films, and guest lectures that draw on climate psychology, philosophy, art, literature and history. A key outcome of this course is identifying pedagogical tools that can be implemented to foster wellbeing within the climate science community and its adjacent fields. Through self reflection, journaling, and group work, students will develop new self-care skills and collective mental health 'protection and promotion' strategies. A primary goal of the course is to understand how trauma-informed learning modules can support the scientific objectives of graduate students. Final projects will include the development of evidence-based instructional and mentoring recommendations for students studying any aspect of climate science. The course is designed to engage students in participatory scholarship; assessment of the effectiveness of various learning modules on student wellbeing and motivation towards their research will be conducted using pre-post style surveys and qualitative interview methods.

SUSTAIN 232: Influencing Policy
In this course, students will learn how to influence active policy and legislative processes and bring their specific expertise to bear on these processes. The class will consist primarily of guest lectures and panels of experts from inside these processes as well as advocates who have successfully shifted policy outcomes. While the class will use domestic and international environmental policy as a primary lens through which to explore what effective advocacy looks like, this class is open to anyone interested in deepening their civic engagement or pursuing a long-term advocacy strategy of any kind. The 1-unit option requires only weekly attendance and posting 1-2 questions for guest speakers on a discussion forum weekly, while the 2-unit option will require students to submit one type of policy document discussed during the quarter as a final project (e.g., draft legislative testimony, a draft public comment letter, or a draft op-ed). The class is primarily intended for graduate students, but upper-level undergraduates may enroll with consent of instructor (email azerbe@stanford.edu with a brief description of your interest in the course and background).

SUSTAIN 237: Sustainable Human Behavior
What is sustainability? It is not just about air travel, ocean health or reducing plastic waste. It is about rethinking our role as humans and leaders in this ever-changing world and developing a mindset that leads to positive habits and creates strong relationships to nurture our planet. In a world where success is frequently regarded as a stopping point rather than a stepping stone to future endeavors, this mindset is critical to leading a life of purpose and meaning. In this class we invite you to rethink: - a sustainable self, by moving away from focusing on the short-run win associated with attaining a goal to the longer-term benefits associated with continued improvement after the goal has been achieved thereby sustaining healthy habits. - sustainable connections, by helping people feel they are valued members of a winning team on an inspired mission. - sustainable planet, in small ways that ripple out small communities and the planet; the hope is to create a culture of shared prosperity. The goal of the class is to facilitate dialogue, knowledge exchange, and collaboration among students and guests to create a sustainable toolkit to cultivate positive habits for our future based on a sense of shared prosperity. Lastly, we'll map out how to use time in ways that will help build sustainable lives (calm mind and healthy body), impactful teams and a beautiful planet, so each of our lives will have meaningful, lasting impact in the world.

SUSTAIN 242: Negotiations
This is an introductory course on negotiations. It is partly experiential: in every session students will engage in negotiation exercises. Data from these exercises will be discussed in the following session. This experiential component will be supported by readings and short lectures on game theory and cognitive & social psychology that will provide a research foundation for analyzing the exercises.

SUSTAIN 248: Environmental Governance and Climate Resilience (CEE 265F, POLISCI 227B, PUBLPOL 265F)
Adaptation to climate change will not only require new infrastructure and policies, but it will also challenge our local, state and national governments to collaborate across jurisdictional lines in ways that include many different types of private and nonprofit organizations and individual actors. The course explores what it means for communities to be resilient and how they can reach that goal in an equitable and effective way. Using wildfires in California as a case study, the course assesses specific strategies, such as controlled burns and building codes, and a range of planning and policy measures that can be used to enhance climate resilience. In addition, it considers how climate change and development of forested exurban areas (among other factors) have influenced the size and severity of wildfires. The course also examines the obstacles communities face in selecting and implementing adaptation measures (e.g., resource constraints, incentives to develop in forested areas, inadequate policy enforcement, and weak inter-agency coordination). Officials from various Bay Area organizations contribute to aspects of the course; and students will present final papers to local government offcials.

SUSTAIN 321: Organizations and Sustainability
This course reviews social science research on the role of organizations in environmental sustainability. Modern human activity is known to be dramatically changing the earth's ecosystem with far-reaching consequences: altering the climate, reducing biodiversity, challenging our ability to provide sufficient food and water, increasing mass migrations, harming our oceans, threatening human health, and potentially leading to increasing violence and chances of war. Our ability to limit and adapt to these changes will depend on the behavior of organizations: corporations, not for profits, governments, non-governmental organizations, political advocacy and social movement organizations. The course organizes the various literatures of 'organization theory' that pertain to sustainability, giving the students an intellectual structure on which to build their own understanding.

SUSTAIN 324: Philanthropy and Civil Society (EDUC 374, POLISCI 334, SOC 374)
Cross-listed with Law ( LAW 7071), Political Science ( POLISCI 334) and Sociology (SOC 374). Associated with the Center for Philanthropy and Civil Society (PACS). Year-long workshop for doctoral students and advanced undergraduates writing senior theses on the nature of civil society or philanthropy. Focus is on pursuit of progressive research and writing contributing to the current scholarly knowledge of the nonprofit sector and philanthropy.

SUSTAIN 330: Leading Environmental Sustainability by Design
This course is intended for Master多s level students. It surveys our planet多s greatest sustainability challenges, and some of the possible ways that humankind might overcome each through proactive leadership. The course material includes readings from multiple disciplines: from the natural sciences, the social sciences, and from business and policy studies. By the end of the course, you should have a basic understanding of the global biological, cultural, social, and economic processes involved in environmental sustainability. Our objective is for you to carry forward this understanding into your career, to enable you to make a difference for the future of our world.

SUSTAIN 331: Ethics in the Anthropocene (BIO 197, BIO 313)
Today, in the Anthropocene, humankind impacts the environment on a massive scale, with severe outcomes for species, ecosystems, and landscapes. The consequences of this impact raise many ethical questions, with new dilemmas forcing us to consider new moral values and re-consider old ones. In this course, we will become acquainted with environmental and conservation ethics and philosophy, and acquire the toolkit of concepts and ideas that will allow us to tackle the current environmental ethical debates. We will explore the role of ethics in the environmental and conservation sciences by discussing the philosophical foundations for moral values in the Anthropocene, as well as by examining practical current-day issues, such as reintroductions, invasive species and conservation advocacy.

SUSTAIN 332: Climate Tech for Rapid Decarbonization
This course examines alternative pathways for economies around the world to achieve deep decarbonization within a couple of decades. The overall perspective is to analyze the global decarbonization process at the intersection of technological improvements, financial fundamentals and the parameters set by public policies.The first part of the course will be concerned with the science and the political economy of climate change, greenhouse gas emissions and the proliferation of net-zero pledges by governments and corporations. Included in this part is a closer look at countries for which the production and export of fossil fuels is a key economic activity. We then turn to the competitiveness of carbon-free or low-carbon technologies in different segments of the economy, including i) power generation, ii) energy storage, iii) transportation, iv) industrial production and v) food and Ag Tech. The final part of the course turns to the emergence of energy technologies with future commercial potential, including hydrogen, fission/fusion, carbon capture and utilization and synthetic hydrocarbons.

SUSTAIN 340: Becoming an Effective Leader
To achieve your career goals in working toward meaningful sustainability solutions, you need technical expertise and a talent for innovation, to be sure. At the same time, you also need to know how to get things done -- how to lead and manage others to achieve a common objective. That is the purpose of this course -- to arm you with practical leadership skills. This course is an adapted version of the required leadership course (called "Organizational Behavior") taught to first-year MBA students at the Graduate School of Business. It has been offered only to GSB students until now, when, after teaching it for the past 17 years, I will be offering it exclusively to students in the Sustainability School. Each of the sessions in this course is highly interactive, relying on role plays, group exercises, simulations, and class discussions to make the experience even more valuable. I want to help you understand how to lead others more effectively across a range of situations by sharing the best insights from behavioral science - covering topics that include decision making, negotiating conflict, communicating effectively, managing collaborative work, and motivating teams. After taking this course, students will be better able to: (1) craft more compelling communication that encourages others to recognize the value of their ideas; (2) build strong, dynamic, and highly motivated teams; and (3) manage collaboration challenges with a combination of sensitivity and political savvy.

SUSTAIN 345: Global Leaders and Innovators in Human and Planetary Health: Sustainable Societies Lab (HRP 285, MED 285)
Are you interested in innovative ideas and strategies for addressing urgent challenges in human and planetary health and creating sustainable societies? This 7 session lecture series features a selection of noteworthy leaders, innovators, and experts across diverse sectors/topics in health and the environment such as: health innovation and environmental sustainability, social and environmental justice and equality, social innovation and entrepreneurship ecosystems, foundations and venture capital, tech innovation, media and AI, biotech and ag-tech, pandemics, public health and community wellbeing, food systems and agricultural innovation, hunger and nutrition, clean water and air, nonprofits and community action, public policy innovation and systems change, and the role of academia and you. Co-convened and co-designed by faculty, fellows and students collaborating across several Stanford centers, departments, schools, the course invites the discussion of global problems, interdisciplinary perspectives, and systemic solutions for the climate crisis and human health. The course will address root causes of the climate crisis and urgent challenges of human and planetary health, including sociological constraints, political objectives, economic incentives, technological limitations, and preservation of global stability, and suggest models of leadership, innovation and sustainable social change. We will also delve into efforts to catalyze long-term sustainability across the private, nonprofit, and public sectors.

SUSTAIN 348: Public Policy for Climate Innovation
This course considers the form and content that climate innovation policies should take as well as implementation strategies to help climate tech companies cross the proverbial "valley of death". The course begins with an evaluation of the advantages and disadvantages of different regulatory approaches to environmental innovation, such as technology forcing standards, command and control oversight, subsidies, carbon taxes and choice architecture "nudges". Subsequently, specific examples of global and national regulatory dynamics that affect technology development are discussed in areas such as renewable energy, energy storage, solid waste reduction, food production, cement and steel production, hydrogen, autonomous/ electric vehicles, shipping, and the fashion industry. Relevant experiences of different countries will be presented including Danish policies to encourage a local wind-turbine industry, German programs to expand solar energy and Israeli government initiatives to foster sustainable Watech and Food tech companies. Potential outcomes of the recently enacted the U.S. Inflation Reduction Act will then be considered. The final section of the course involves analysis of specific case studies assessing Climate Tech companies in different stages of their development. Students will research a range of clean tech companies多 experience and consider the way policies affect their business plans, financing, research portfolios and ultimate success or failure. The course will be based on instructor多s lectures, interactive, virtual presentations by climate tech managers, a field trip to local climate tech companies' facilities and presentation of group projects.

SUSTAIN 349: The Financial Economics of Climate and Sustainability
The purpose of the course is to (a) introduce graduate students to questions and methods in the rapidly evolving fields of climate/sustainable finance; (b) connect researchers from across the globe interested in this topic to stimulate more rigorous, relevant, and collaborative work. Addressing climate change demands changes in natural, social, and economic systems and will require greater collaboration. In that spirit, this course is being offered by a team of professors from different schools and universities across the globe. Each instructor will deliver one or more lectures and there will be students from a number of different schools. Our teaching group consists of current and former AFA and EFA presidents and some of the leading climate finance scholars, including Laura Starks (current AFA President), Patrick Bolton (former AFA President), Stefano Giglio, Marcin Kacperczyk (former EFA President), Caroline Flammer, Geoff Heal, Stefan Reichelstein, Ben Caldecott and Peter Tufano. Pre-requisites and finance context: The course will assume that participants have a background in core graduate-level finance. The course will cover topics from a variety of subfields in finance (asset pricing, financial intermediation, household finance, corporate finance). The introductory block of three classes is intended to orient students to the science of climate change as well as to refresh key concepts from economics and finance; the remaining classes will dive into detail on current research in different subfield. We will conclude with a discussion of open topics in this field.

SUSTAIN 376: Startup Garage: Design (BIOE 376)
Startup Garage is an intensive, hands-on, project-based course where students apply human-centric design, lean startup methodology, and the Business Model Canvas to conceive, design, and field-test new business concepts that address real world needs. Teams get out of the building and interact directly with users, industry participants, and advisors to deeply understand one or more unmet customer needs. They proceed to design, prototype, and test their proposed products or services and a business model. Teams working on impact-focused ventures will apply the same methodology to address the needs of their beneficiaries. Students develop entrepreneurial skills as they learn critical, cutting-edge techniques about launching a venture.

SUSTAIN 377: Startup Garage: Testing and Launch (BIOE 377)
In this intensive, hands-on project based course, teams continue to develop their ventures based on a user need that they validated in preparation for the course. They build out more elaborate versions of their prototypes and Business Model Canvas; test hypotheses about the product/service, business model, value proposition, customer acquisition, revenue generation, and fundraising; and deliver a seed round financing pitch to a panel of investors. Students develop entrepreneurial skills as they 1) Get out of the building and gather insights from users, investors, and advisors, 2) Make decisions about pivoting, 3) Work through their operating plans and unit economics, 4) Test go-to-market strategies, 5) Consider equity splits, 6) Learn term sheet negotiations, and 7) Practice their pitches.
